
# VTK Protocol

The files in this repository are designed to help you get started with reading data logged with the VTK protocol. The VTK protocol is a binary format used on Velocitek devices starting with the 2020 model of the ProStart.

### This repository contains the following files:
- **SESSION_14.VTK**, a sample vtk file that contains Trackpoint, TimerEvent, ButtonEvent and HardwareDescription type messages.
- **vtk.proto**, a definition of the VTK protocol that allows you to automatically generate functions for reading .vtk files in your favorite programming language, using the Google Protocol Buffer Compiler, protoc (see [https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers]).
 
- **vtk_pb2.py**, a Python module generated by protoc, based on vtk.proto that provides functions for reading and writing .vtk files.

- **vtktool.p<span>y**, a Python script that reads .vtk files and converts them to .csv files that you can read in a text editor or Excel. Use it at the command line like this: **python vtktool.p<span>y SESSION_14.VTK session_14.csv** to convert *SESSION_14.VTK* to the CSV file *session_14.csv*.

- **transformations.p</span>y**, a Python module containing functions for geometric transformations. vtktool.p<span>y uses the function euler_from_quaternion(quaternion) to convert the quaternions logged in a .vtk file to magnetic heading, heel and pitch angles. In case you're wondering, quaternions are just an efficient way of representing and doing math with the 3D orientation of an object.

   [https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers]: <https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers>